---
title: 2026-07-15
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   15 JUly 2026

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Andrew Grimberg, Linux Foundation Release Engineering
* Eric Salituro, Individual
* Stephen Mackenzie, Rez
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks, OSL / OIIO
* Jon Lanz, Dreamworks / Moonray

## Apologies

## New items

* Apologies for missing the June meeting
  * We've been around for so long the ASWF Calendar event expired! (CI WG was created at the same time as the TAC)
  * Calendar invite should be restored

* aswf-docker Container Updates
  * 2023.4 / 2024.8 / 2025.7 / 2026.5 / 2027.0 released
  * Headline features
    * versions.yaml is back to being source of truth, Conan settings file are auto generated with `aswfdocker dockergen`
    * 2027.0 draft images
      * VFX Platform 2027 except projects which haven't released yet:
        * OCIO 2.5.2 instead of 2.6.x
        * OpenEXR 3.4.13 instead of 3.5.x
        * OpenVDB 13.0.0 instead of 14.x
        * OpenSubdiv 3.7.0 instead of 3.8.x
      * Base components
        * Rocky Linux 9.8 aka glibc 2.34
        * CUDA 13.3.0
        * LLVM 21.1.8 / 22.1.7
          * OSL needs LLVM 22 for CUDA 13, PySide 6.8 needs LLVM 21
        * OptiX 9.1.0
        * MaterialX 1.39.5
        * OpenUSD 26.05
      * No major hurdles, auto generated Conan settings helped
      * OIIO / OSL using those yet? Larry: added 2027.0 for OIIO, haven't tried older year updates yet. Haven't added 2027 for OSL yet, "half done". But for OIIO 2027 container "just worked". OSL / CUDA 13 will be useful "because reasons". Dealing with NVIDIA driver versions. JF: CUDA 13 also drops Pascal support.
    * ci-moonray images, contributed by Jon Lanz / Moonray
      * Not a Conan recipe to build Moonray yet, but enough to gather dependencies and build ci-moonray image
      * ispc and openimagedenoise installed from pre-built binaries
        * tricky to handle: rpath, TBB version requirements
        * pending branch to replace with from-source builds
        * Larry: have not used ispc
    * Minor version updates across previous VFX years
    * Better testing for building current version in previous VFX platform years
      * Need to publish build matrix of what is expected to work
      * Some combinations do not work, for instance latest OIIO needs OCIO 2.3 minimum, so cannot build in 2023 / OCIO 2.2
    * OCIO now includes OIIO (circular dependency) to test building CLI tools which depend on it
      * Does not address OSL optional dependency (3 way cycle between OCIO / OIIO / OSL)
  * Coming soon
    * Better support for building Python bindings, including nanobind for rawtoaces (already in main but unreleased)
      * Larry: OIIO and soon OSL will be switching to Nanobind, for now can build both. There are some compatibility issues, if some downstream project has Python bindings and wants to use the OIIO public types in its own bindings, they have to "agree". So will support both for at least one major release.
      * Some projects mix and max find_package(Python ...) and find_package(Python3 ...)
      * CMake can get confused when there's a newer Python at the system level than the VFX Platform one in /usr/local
      * Project CMake variables like OCIO_PYTHON_VERSION can help to find the right Python
    * Better handling of upstream Conan Center Index updates
    * Leverage Conan to determine package build order
      * Don't take 3 days to release new images
  * "Newer" (Gen 1 Scalable Xeon) / faster local machine with more local disk cache, will help with dev work
    * System runs Rocky Linux 10.2 to experiment with Wayland

* Signed source releases
  * Implemented by multiple repos through a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openexr/blob/main/.github/workflows/release-sign.yml)
  * Can filter out unwanted files from source tarball
  * Exposes SHA256 checksum
    * No support yet for Conan recipe to compare its own SHA256 against the one published on GitHub
  * No way to get rid of the default, auto-generated .tar.gz and .zip links
  * Opened issues against ASWF projects which haven't implemented it yet
  * Larry: I copied from OpenEXR / Cary. There are core projects with core projects with people who sit on more than one TSC, you can see ideas spread from one project to the other. But some projects don't really have connections to the "core" clump, those projects don't always end up adopting the security best practices. The "core group" of projects tends to move as a group, especially for security issues. Takes more effort to communicate with more "island" projects. Stephen: also depends on people attending the TAC. Larry: in the health reports, included stats about TAC attendance, some projects don't attend the TAC meeting much. JF: lightning presentations to TAC could be useful. Stephen: I've put my hat in the ring, will do so after SIGGRAPH. It's similar to something Larry did.

* The Vulnpocalypse
  * Higher exposure projects flooded by LLM-generated security reports
    * Many are just simple "bugs" / crashes
    * But every one needs to be evaluated
    * [A general issue across open source: curl](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2026/06/15/curl-summer-of-bliss/)
  * GitHub security reporting mechanism is too heavyweight, imposes undue burden on maintainers
  * "10x" more work than a simple bug report through GH Issues
  * Projects can decide to update their security policy and how they handle such reports ("we don't do CVEs?")
  * Deeper upcoming TAC meeting discussion
  * [Limiting drive-by PRs](https://github.blog/changelog/2026-06-17-limit-open-pull-requests-for-users-without-write-access/)
  * Andrew: if you file it as a standard issue, it is open for all to see. You still want the security reporting mechanism to keep it hidden until it is fixed. Stephen: but lots of issues are misclassified. Cary was saying that people were filing "standard" issues as Security issues. Larry: just making the program crash is not a security vulnerability, that helps. Andrew: yes, what is your policy, the more clear you can make it, the less room for abuse. If it's well written in a way that an LLM can understand it, the LLM may be less inclined to raise a security vulnerability. Larry: we haven't seen "LLM direct" reports, they seem to be real people, but they are using agents to discover the vulns. Almost everything reported to OpenEXR and OIIO have been legit bugs, we're not getting "slop", but we are inundated. I still believe in the security reporting mechanism, but the reason for wanting to keep it secret was because vulns were hard to find, so you didn't want to "give" vulns to bad actors. But now does it matter? Bad actors have LLMs as well... Andrew: a growing concern to me, we are managing git repos not on GitHub, constantly bombarded by AI scrapers. Biggest problem with vuln report is if they aren't also providing a PR. Larry: they often do, sometimes they attach a fix, but you still have to evaluate it, and GitHub doesn't run CI. GitHub could do a lot to help.
  * Andrew: people were asking for a way to report security issues without the public issue / PR tracking. At least it's all in GitHub instead of a mailing list. An improvement, but not the best solution. Better solution would be an option to run CI test against something raised this way. Larry: yes, this would help, as well as a "one button" solution to reclassify a report as a normal issue. Andrew: sounds like something worth reporting back to GitHub. Larry: GitHub promises 3 working days for issuing a CVE, but it's really 2-3 weeks, with fixes sitting in the queue.
  * Larry requests:
    * Quick CVE assignment
    * Ability to reclassify as a normal issue
    * Ability to run CI against a patch
  * Andrew: would you want to analyze their code first, perhaps with an LLM? So it doesn't introduce more issues? Larry: depends on size of patch, usually it's a very localized, fairly obvious change. I wouldn't trust hundreds of lines of change. In practice, I usually end up redoing it myself.
  * JF: you can now disable PRs from non-committers. Larry: so far not an issue with ASWF projects, the PRs have been relatively high quality. But some of the dependencies I rely on, I follow their mailing lists, and they are having trouble keeping their head above water.
  * Stephen: does version churn from these dependencies affect you? Larry: not too much. My projects are built to accept a fairly wide range of versions from their dependencies. Usually I set a reasonable minimum, but I don't nail to specific versions. Stephen: if someone builds OIIO, it's their issue to pick dependencies.
  * JF: CMake setups should generate SBOMs. Stephen: we've been using Conan SBOMs pretty reliably, can extend to system level (apt/rpm) components. It's not simple, but I can send documentation links. Should be possible to have SBOMs generate for aswf-docker.
  * Andrew: in releng we have sbom generation, and here is one for [CMake based projects](https://github.com/DEMCON/cmake-sbom), don't know if this outputs SARIF files, but that would be ideal. We also have a tool called gripe which will report CVEs based on those.
  * Andrew: releng GitHub org configured for 7 day cool off on dependabot. [tool to help merge changes from trusted bots](https://pypi.org/project/dependamerge/)

* Project health check
  * [Scanning all ASWF projects for consistency](https://gist.github.com/lgritz/613594ab82b2745cfafe0692c80bae5c)
  * [CI WG specific section](https://gist.github.com/lgritz/613594ab82b2745cfafe0692c80bae5c#continuous-integration-working-group-ci-wg--aswf-health-check-2026-07-13)
  * Tricky to figure out what applies to a WG docs repo (wg-ci) and a project repo (aswf-docker)
    * wg-ci repo is missing SECURITY, GOVERNANCE and CONTRIBUTING, not clear if applicable, but can be addressed
    * aswf-docker missing SECURITY and GOVERNANCE, will be addressed
  * Encourage looking at results for your projects

## Follow Ups

* NodeJS 24 for CentOS 7 / glibc 2.17
  * People still commenting on [PR #190 against nodejs/unofficial-builds](https://github.com/nodejs/unofficial-builds/pull/190)
  * Merged a few days ago in [PR #243](https://github.com/nodejs/unofficial-builds/pull/243)
  * [No binaries yet](https://unofficial-builds.nodejs.org/download/release/)
  * Some hope to keep CentOS 7 builds alive once GHA forces NodeJS 24

* RMTC CI requirements
  * No update so far
* Docker Hub Subscription Plan
  * Not back up as of last month
  * [LF ticket](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-29403)
  * Waiting for business decision

* ASWF CI Best Practices Document
  * [Template checked in to TAC repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/tree/main/project_best_practices_guides)
  * No progress yet

* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects
    * [OpenColorIO](https://pypi.org/project/opencolorio/)
      * Some action there but not complete
    * [fvdb](https://pypi.org/project/fvdb-core/)
    * OpenAssetIO followed up, not done yet

## Tools and Links

* [RHEL GitHub Runner images](https://github.blog/changelog/2026-06-25-red-hat-enterprise-linux-runner-images-are-now-in-public-preview/)
  * Only for paid runners / custom images
* [C++ Documentary](https://youtu.be/lI7tMxzSJ7w)
* [WSL Container](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-container?tabs=csharp)
  * Native container support on Windows
* [Apple Container](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2026/389/): native container support on macOS Tahoe
  * [GitHub repo](https://github.com/apple/container)
  * Seems to work based on an hour of experimentation
  * Only supports Linux containers, not macOS
* [copybara a tool to copy between private and public repose](https://github.com/google/copybara)
* [Dependabot adds 3 day cooldown after new version release](https://github.blog/changelog/2026-07-14-dependabot-version-updates-introduce-default-package-cooldown/)
