---
title: 2026-05-20
parent: Meetings
---

# ASWF CI Working Group

Meeting:   20 May 2026

[https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97730566101?password=cb28b3b9-f744-46d0-ab69-d9f75f1b8668)

## Attendees

* Jean-Francois Panisset, VES Technology Committee
* Andrew Grimberg, Linux Foundation Release Engineering
* Stephen Mackenzie, Rez
* Eric Salituro, Individual
* Larry Gritz, Sony Imageworks, OSL / OIIO

## Apologies

## New items

* aswf-docker Container Updates
  * 2023.3 / 2024.7 / 2025.6 / 2026.4
  * [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/aswf-docker/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
  * Headline features
    * OpenUSD is now built as a "batteries included" Conan package, including as many dependencies as possible (OCIO, OIIO, MaterialX, OSL, Ptex, Alembic, OpenVDB).
    * All packages now built using Conan, will be able to start leveraging Conan for dependency resolution and automate a lot of the build / release sequence that had to be done manually
    * 2023 images are back alive (updated to use Conan 2.x), and since those were built on top of a recent Rocky 8.10 image, that should address SSL verification errors when a build tries to download something from a URL for which a root certificate was not previously present.
  * Challenges
    * Updated 2023.3 images are "stricter" than 2023.2 since they use Conan 2.x to determine contents
    * Should projects pin their container image dependencies, and potentially never see new versions, or live with CI disruption when the images get updated?
      * Larry: the 'glass half empty', I really depend on these containers. I go back and forth, this week I'm leaning towards locking down for the previous years, and maybe never updating. I want to stay current on the current year. If the previous year packages come up with a patch release, do I need that? And if I ride the upgrade wave, I may no longer be testing the version I tell consumers I support. If I use OCIO "2.2.0", they fix something, put out a 2.2.1, if I test against 2.2.1, I may behave wrong. But I hesitate. If it was all free, I'd test against everything. So I try to "sample" the span of what I want to support. "Monte Carlo" sampling of combinations. Stephen: it's like mutation testing: you tweak one thing, make a note of a failure to retest in the future, but it will "guess" other mutations. You don't get a reproducible set of tests every time you run it.
    * Projects want to build their current versions in previous years. Simpler for "leaf" projects like rawtoaces (specify latest 2.1.0 release for 2023-2026 to get the right dependencies). Not so simple for libraries which depend on versions locked by VFX Platform (for instance needing a newer version of OCIO)
    * Larry: a client of OCIO may need a newer version in an older environment, so one else may want that combination, don't need make a container.

    * Some packages have changing dependencies over time, Conan tries to minimize included dependencies (if versions x+1 no longer links against Boost, you don't want clients of version x+1 to inherit no-longer-useful transitive dependency on Boost)
    * Combinatorial explosion of combinations
    * What does it mean to test building latest OCIO in an older VFX Platform year container?
    * Two / multiple sets of images?
      * A "strict" VFX Platform / versions for that year
      * A "looser" VFX Platform / latest versions for other packages?
    * Or go all in with "build your own image" by installing the Conan packages you want?
      * Larry: are we asking too much of the containers? Should they be more minimal and just have the toolchain, and use Conan to set up the project?
      * Larry: want to limit workload as number of projects grows. Juggling so many ci-XXXX variants, and it's only going to grow. If there were only base images and the project assembled their own images, that might be simpler.
  * What's coming next
    * Working on PR to move all version information back to "single source of truth" versions.yaml
    * VFX Platform 2027 draft images (PR above makes that a lot easier)
    * Possibly Alma Kitten 10 based images to experiment with Wayland (based on first "Wayland for Artists" WG meeting discussion)

* [VFX Platform 2027 draft](https://vfxplatform.com/#reference-platform) is announced
  * We're looking at moving to OneTBB 2023.x since there are some useful new features
    * ["Worker fast leave"](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneTBB/pull/1991)
    * Breaks current OpenUSD compilation due to changes in include file layout
  * Interesting discussion about Qt versions and Wayland support in "Wayland for Artists" first WG meeting
    * VFX 2027 currently sticks with Qt 6.8.x
    * Most of the functionality of QtWayland moves in QtBase in 6.10.x
    * Wayland / Qt patches from KDE / Fedora hard to apply to versions before 6.10.x

* [MaterialX investigating fuzzing](https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0169RX7MMK/p1778689672021699)
  * OSS-Fuzz like OpenEXR
  * FuzzTest
    * [Draft MaterialX PR](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/MaterialX/pull/2941)
    * FuzzTest is heavy, it's pulling down Abseil, Antlr and other big dependencies
    * FuzzTest is extremely powerful. It supports property based testing compared to the simple bytes based input of libFuzzer. You can do things like

```c++
# Richer input, you can even generate inputs from Regex
auto AnyMaterialXVector3() {
  return fuzztest::Map(
      [](float x, float y, float z) { return mx::Vector3(x, y, z); },
      fuzztest::Arbitrary<float>(),
      fuzztest::Arbitrary<float>(),
      fuzztest::Arbitrary<float>()
  );
}

FUZZ_TEST(MaterialXValueTests, ValueStringRoundtrip)
    .WithDomains(AnyMaterialXVector3());
...
# Invariant conditions
EXPECT_NEAR(normalized.getMagnitude(), 1.0f, 1e-4f);
```

    * It seems to have magic to get strings from the code and inject them into the fuzzing dictionary
    * It seems good at Oracle testing, I'm seeing lots of examples about comparing SIMD implementations against non-SIMD paths
    * FuzzTest is a lot more complicated to reason about because of its rich syntax compared to libfuzzer linkage.
    
* RHEL 9 ABI Compatibility
  * [Guidelines for preserving binary compatibility](https://access.redhat.com/articles/rhel9-abi-compatibility#Guidelines)
  * "An application is only guaranteed to run correctly if it executes in an environment that is as new as the environment it was built in or newer. For example, compiling your application on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.0 means your application is only guaranteed to run correctly on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.0 or later depending on the compatibility level of the components you depend upon."
  * Not just in theory: [RHEL 9.1 adds restartable sequence support in glibc](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2022/12/22/restartable-sequences-support-glibc-rhel-9)
  * Are there any projects delivering binaries built in the aswf-docker images? Those will tend to be on "latest" dot versions (8.10, soon 9.7 or perhaps 9.8 which released today)
  * What about Python Wheels with compiled code? Do they release out of the containers? Or Ubuntu? Stephen: Rez updates will probably make it necessary to release platform-specific wheels. For now it's pure Python, but we will likely need to release platform-specific binary code. We don't necessarily need the containers? We might need to be aware of what glibc we're building against and track that. Python tends to use glibc for its ABI compatibility.
  * Stephen: that is the only reason we may switch runners we use, if aswf-docker supports a glibc we build against for a wheel we want to distribute. We may be moving to uv to manage Python versions.

* Stephen: some security scanners look at requirements / dependencies and yell at you. Does LF have a preferred one? Looking from perspective of just Python, maybe Rust / C++? I have some at work. At work I use Grype (Andrew: we use it). It looks at my lock file, and will tell you to upgrade. For now I'm thinking of Python, but a general solution would be great. Andrew: we recommend Grype and Python Audit for Python, we have a couple of actions in [LF actions](https://github.com/lfreleng-actions), see Build and Test workflows. We have some workflows that tie those actions together. It automatically generates the build matrix based on pyproject or setup config. You just put the workflow in place and it takes care of it. Includes all the way through release. There's an option to require a signed tag. Stephen: I'll dig into the actions. Andrew: we also have a tool called [dependamerge](https://github.com/lfit/dependamerge) which you can point at a whole org or a specific repo, or a dependabot change, and do merging for you. Stephen: we get a lot of Dependabot, but it doesn't pin to a hash. Andrew: it will do that if your dependencies are already pinned and have a version number comment. All of ours are pinned at the sha with the version in comment. Dependenbot will update both the SHA and the tag. One audit will complain if out of sync.
* JF: dependabot complains about version of uv? Stephen: uv is updating and breaking a lot lately. Andrew: with all supply issues lately, we've turned down how often dependabot makes changes. We have it set to wait 15 days for major releases, minor for 7, patch for 3. Majority of supply chain issues get closed pretty quickly.

* Stephen: we get CoPilot access, any other LLM endpoints provided? Andrew: if you look at CoPilot, we've enabled every LLM available through CoPilot, includes Claude Opus 4.7? Larry: the tools are combination as front end and back end model. You can't use Claude Code, have to use CoPilot front end. Andrew: as a maintainer you get access to CoPilot in "agentic methodology", not in PRs. But I'm a bit fuzzy how GitHub deals with CoPilot requests to review. If you request it, it may come out of your personal account. Larry: since I'm a maintainer on most projects I'm not, I'm not sure who gets to see CoPilot or not. Andrew: GPT 5.5 and Gemini 3.5 Flash now available. Using CoPilot and SpecKit has really increased my productivity. SpecKit was the biggest part of that, clear specifications make the agent work better at what you ask it to do. Larry: I have that bookmarked!
  
## Follow Ups

* NodeJS 24 for CentOS 7 / glibc 2.17
  * People still commenting on [PR #190 against nodejs/unofficial-builds](https://github.com/nodejs/unofficial-builds/pull/190) but no release
* RMTC CI requirements
  * No update so far
* GitHub Actions Cache Size Limit
  * Request from OpenRV
  * Did that happen?
    * Andrew: that was done, they had submitted a ticket. We bumped it up across the board for everybody.
* Docker Hub Subscription Plan
  * Not back up as of last month
  * [LF ticket](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/desk/portal/2/IT-29403)
  * Waiting for business decision
  * Andrew: will look internally. They have changed their plans. Will try to get project into the Open Source Program, you no longer have to apply every year. Should be able to resolve it that way.
  * JF: I'm also looking at dual pushing to Docker Hub and GitHub Container registry. Andrew: we recommend that, it's faster in GitHub Actions. And push to Docker Hub for discoverability. We have some workflows around that, including sigstore signing and sbom generation. We have Python workflows to do SBOM generation and signing of artifacts before they get published to PyPI. But we don't have a good solution for C++ yet.
* ASWF CI Best Practices Document
  * [Template checked in to TAC repo](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/tac/tree/main/project_best_practices_guides)
  * No progress yet
* PyPI Organization for aswf
  * Need to follow up on remaining ASFW projects
    * [OpenColorIO](https://pypi.org/project/opencolorio/)
      * Some action there but not complete
    * [fvdb](https://pypi.org/project/fvdb-core/)
  * JF TODO
* GitHub Action Custom Images
  * Any updates on availability?
  * Baking in dependencies for Windows / macOS image as an alternative to aswf-docker support
  * Andrew: now publicly available / GA. Paid runners only.
  * [Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/how-tos/manage-runners/larger-runners/use-custom-image).
  * Ability to use custom VMs in cloud, can spin up any AWS instance as part of GHA run. Similar for VEXXhost. Some upfront work required. But unlike AWS CodeBuild, not so locked in the configuration. Good for GPUs. OCIO is using CodeBuild, they are on old images. Images have to be updated in CodeBuild config. Advantage of LF "harness" is you can point to any AMI available. CodeBuild requires that the CodeBuild definition specifies the AMI, whereas for LF "harness" it's just defined in the job. Can specify whichever EC2 instance you want.
  * TODO: follow up with OCIO
  * Current set of images are managed by GitHUb, just assigned to larger instances. For custom images, there is an image generation job, would need to figure out what goes into the image, then configure it to be available. Likely needs manual intervention.

## Tools and Links

* [Tanstack npm supply chain compromise](https://tanstack.com/blog/npm-supply-chain-compromise-postmortem)
  * `pull_request_target` strikes again
  * SonarCloud audits your GitHub Actions code
  * Zizmore also an option for scanning. Andrew: starting to roll it out, works pretty well, along with CodeQL,
  * Also can use [actionlint pre-commit hooks](https://github.com/rhysd/actionlint/blob/main/.pre-commit-hooks.yaml)
  * [https://github.com/lfreleng-actions](https://github.com/lfreleng-actions)
  * [https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest](https://docs.releng.linuxfoundation.org/en/latest)
  * LF RelEng template, with a [comprehensive pre-commit hooks file](https://github.com/lfreleng-actions/actions-template)

* [Reproducible Builds](https://reproducible-builds.org/)
* [Reproducible Builds in Debian](https://wiki.debian.org/ReproducibleBuilds)
* [Sustaining Package Registries Working Group](https://www.sonatype.com/press-releases/sonatype-and-package-registry-leaders-unite)
* [GitHub 2026 Security Roadmap](https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/whats-coming-to-our-github-actions-2026-security-roadmap/)
